# SRE_Project_Screens

## Technologies used-
HTML, CSS, BootStrap, JavaScript, React.js

## Introduction-
Time management is an integral part of all our everyday activities today. It is even more important in academic circles, where time management happens to be the key to excellence. This is applicable not just for students, but even more for teaching professionals, who are in charge of the future of their pupils. Nowadays, a teaching professional is not just limited to taking classes in order to impart knowledge; they are the ones responsible for imparting holistic education to students. Their activities are not just limited to taking lectures, but they also constitute designing a pedagogy that makes students actually understand and apply their learned concepts. A teaching professional now organizes workshops and seminars, plans informative activities, offers career guidance to students, acts as their guide to the world outside their institution, acts as their counselor, and so much more.
Hence, it becomes extremely important to empower such professionals, and offer them a solution to the hurdles they face in managing their time. It is necessary for head of institutions to make sure that their work-life balance is ensured so that their work is of a high quality. Manually managing so many activities is error-prone, which is why an automated tool that helps them plan their work days is the need of the hour. Zenith Software Solutions is there to empower academicians by providing them a Personal Time Tracking System (PTTS), in order to enable efficient collaboration and fuss-free planning.

## Overview-
Zenith Software Solutions is working on developing a Personal Time Tracking System (PTTS) for IIITA, in order to give more power to the concerned academicians, so that can manage their time in the best possible way. It will not only help them plan and track their personal schedules with full customizability, but it will also enable the Chair, i.e. Head of the Departments as well as the premier of the institute, the Director, to monitor the schedules of all faculty members. They will have the power to adjust the schedule of faculty members and ensure better utilization of time for academic as well as extra-curricular activities.
The PTTS will allow faculty members to add tasks which could either be recurring or non-recurring in nature. For the recurring tasks, the system itself allots the time once specified for it. For the non-recurring tasks, one has to specify the time entry for it while registering the task. The chair will have access to the schedules of all faculty members, and will have the power to modify them if required. The chair could also specify minimum time for any task. The PTTS will make sure that tasks entered follow the minimum criteria specified by the chair, and the total time of all the tasks in a day is well within the maximum working hours.
The PTTS will feature an attractive and user-friendly UI for enhanced user experience, and good database integration featuring useful extra tools so that this system can be normalized throughout the institution.

## The Stakeholders-
Three main stakeholders have been identified in the system, described as follows-
•	Director (Chair of the Institution): The Director, being the head of the entire institution, has the power to plan macro activities concerning the entire institution, like working hours for everyone, activities supposed to be undertaken by the entire institute, trainings for staff, announcing holidays or complimentary offs, etc. The Director is supposed to have a high-level control of the system in an easy and efficient manner, and should be able to go to lower levels for more detailed reports as and when required.
•	HOD (Chair of each Department): The HOD is supposed to have a control over all the teachers in his/her department. The PTTS should not allow an HOD to control a department not under his/her jurisdiction. The HOD gets to decide and schedule departmental activities concerning teachers, assign them tasks on the same level, decide what subjects need classes, labs, etc. The HOD could also decide to cancel certain classes or activities, and substitute with others. 
•	Faculty Member: The faculty member is supposed to have control over micro tasks. He/she is supposed to have full control over deciding tasks and planning his/her day, while staying within the regulations laid by both the institutional and departmental Chairs. There should be means of privately and securely interacting with the HOD and Director, and unauthorized personnel should not be able to access or modify his/her schedule.  

## Stakeholders’ Expectations-
Here are the stakeholders’ expectations in a summarized manner:
•	Director (Chair of the institution): As a Director, he wants to keep track of each faculty’s schedule of working hours. He wants to know how much a faculty is occupied with his/her work in a week so that he knows if any faculty is having work stress. To keep a record of working hours he wants a chart to be shown for each faculty’s schedule. He should be able to sort faculties/HODs according to their Name, Department, Date of Joining etc. In case if he wants to assign a task to a particular faculty/HOD, he should be able to do so. He should be able to contact directly to a faculty, to a group of faculty, to HODs or to the whole department’s faculties. He should be allowed to add/delete faculties. He should be able to perform these tasks even when he is not at campus. It should have an attractive and easy to use UI.
•	HOD (Chair of the department): The expectations of the various HODs of IIITA matched those of the Director.
•	Faculty member: Filling of tasks should be a simple process. If they are on leave, their schedule should not be visible and no one should be able to call/text him/her. Except HODs and the Director, no other person should be allowed to see their tasks (privacy & security). He/she should be able to contact the Director, his HOD, his/her TAs and other faculty members directly. If the Director or HOD is sending any message which is marked as urgent it should prompt at screen. It should have an attractive and easy to use UI.
